So what is the illness.
Well giddiness is the part of our network set up their resolve our domain and yours into actual eyepiece.
So what it actually does is to resolve what is called fully qualified domain names and a fully qualified
domain name is for example as we see here those older the Google dot com where we have Google as the
name of this particular server and then we have the root domain which is the dot com.
So what our Dennis is doing is to translate this into an IP because there is no actual server which
has this as its address underneath the name.
It has an IP because our computer speaks in numbers so it has to resolve it into something that you
can understand.
The reason why we are translating from for example Google that come into numbers is because numbers
is a lower layer and that is a lot easier to translate into binary whereas binary is again easier to
translate into electrical impulses because that is basically what is happening when we are networking
that is electric in poses that is getting transferred over our wire.
So in order to make that this entire networking easier for us humans we will not be using electric impulses
and binary or eyepiece because that is simply too hard to remember.
Try to just imagine how many eyepiece you should remember on a daily basis just to visit the 10 most
favorite sites that you are visiting daily.
There will be near impossible.
So it is much easier for a human to remember names than we can use to navigate around the net.
So there is the reason why we have our DNS because that will keep a table and keep track of what domain
names resolves into what IP says that we can navigate around the web.
But not all domain.
Not all DNS servers has a full record of the entire Internet because that is simply impossible.
So what is happening when we are doing networking and your visiting websites that your current local
DNS has never seen before is that you are going to ask other DNS servers around the web until you find
the resource that you're looking for.
So let's take a look at how this work.
So here we have a little setup where the circle or this area right here indicates our local network
which could be similar to the network that you are having at home.
And then we have the entire internet in this bubble up here.
So we are sitting at the client computer.
So we will see say see right here and then we have local server running on our entire internal network
which is called Test on local and then we have our DNS server right here.
And both the DNS our local Tesco and our client is connected to our router which provide us with capability
of reaching the other Internet.
So we are sitting at the client and then at the client computer we will have a host file so we will
see a host right here and we will have a cache.
So this is two fails.
That is our host and our cash.
And when we are trying to request a given resource for example we are trying to get access to this test
local.
Our computer will first look at its cash to see have I visit this requested service before.
If not it will look at the host file to have a new records of what address this is placed at and where
the server is located.
And if not it will say OK then I need to ask my DNS server meaning that the one that is configured on
our internal network to resolve the domain names.
So what it will do is to send a genius request over to our radar and then it will go down to the DNS
and this request.
It will basically ask.
OK.
Do you know where tested local is located.
And our audience will have a record of that because it kept a record of what is happening internally
on our network.
So it will respond back to our clan and say Yea.
This is the IP and location of the test.
So our clan will say fine and then it will get to Ferrara and get down to our test service right here
and then it will get the resources back to the client.
But if our client then want to get access to a service that is on the internet and not within the internal
network for example this will slow the academy server that is placed somewhere on the Internet.
Our client will then again check its case its host file and it will get to the conclusion that it haven't
rescinded this visited the site before.
So again we will use green for this one.
It will ask our DNS and say Do you know this resource and our DNS will then do a look up and say No
I actually don't have any records of this site that you're looking for.
So I will check up with my configured DNS so our DNS on our internal network through our arrow will
have external DNS configured in case that it need to look up something itself similar to when you are
calling someone at a library or something asking for a book.
Then if the library don't have the book on their shelf they will probably reach out to one of the other
local libraries nearby in order to hear if they have the book and the same 74 audience.
So I had our audience will have this external genius configure and that is the Dennis that it should
read too.
So Dennis will make a request out here and then it will ask Do you know where this Winslow page is located
and actually this Dennis does have a record of where this is located and the IP of it so it will return
an answer.
We will do this in blue so it will say yea I notice and it will turn back to our genus what our genus
will now do then is to create this record of where this is placed because now it know where it is placed
due to the Mugabe or for external genus and it will return back to our client and say here there which
side you are looking for is placed under this IP.
So what we will do now as our client you will make a request.
We will do this in pink so we can now just say OK I need to see this so we will go to our RA and our
arrow will go directly to the place on the Internet where this resource is stored.
So this is how we are using our DNS to resolve internal locations and how our genies get help from external
DNS servers to resolve external services in case that it does not have a record of it.